Added vegetation instance system component reference docs (#1930)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/components/reference/vegetation/vegetation-instance-system.md

---
linkTitle: Vegetation Instance System
title: Vegetation Instance System Component

> description: Manages and processes requests to create and destroy vegetation instances in Open 3D Engine (O3DE). 

Author: The asterisks won't register as bold because this is in the metadata

---

> The Vegetation Instance System component manages and processes requests to create and destroy vegetation instances, or static objects, throughout your world.

Reviewer: "static objects" -> "objects"

Author: ```suggestion
The Vegetation Instance System component manages and processes requests to create and destroy vegetation instances, or objects, throughout your world.
```

Learn about how the Vegetation Instance System component works within the vegetation system in [Technical details](#technical-details) below.

{{< note >}} 
This is a system component that exists when you interact with the vegetation system via the Vegetation Gem. Generally, this system is already set up and you don't need to do anything further to manage vegetation in your world.
{{< /note >}}

## Provider

[Vegetation Gem](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/environment/vegetation/)

## Source code

[`Gems/Vegetation/Code/Source/InstanceSystemComponent.h`](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Gems/Vegetation/Code/Source/InstanceSystemComponent.h)

## Properties

| Property| Description | Values | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Max Instance Process Time Microseconds** | The number of microseconds per tick for processing instance management tasks. | 0 to 33000 | 500 |
> | **Max Instance Task Batch Size** | The number of instance management tasks that can be batch processed together. | 1 to 2000 | 100 |

Reviewer 2: The latest convention is to use dash for range.

```suggestion
| **Max Instance Process Time Microseconds** | The number of microseconds per tick for processing instance management tasks. | 0 - 33000 | 500 |
| **Max Instance Task Batch Size** | The number of instance management tasks that can be batch processed together. | 1 - 2000 | 100 |
```

> | **Max Instance Task Batch Size** | The number of instance management tasks that can be batch processed together. | 1 to 2000 | 100 |

Reviewer: This might be easier to understand if we clarify "instance management tasks". Maybe:
| **Max Instance Process Time Microseconds** | The number of microseconds per tick for processing instance spawning / despawning tasks. | 0 - 33000 | 500 |
	| **Max Instance Task Batch Size** | The number of individual instance spawn / despawn tasks that can be batch processed together. | 1 - 2000 | 100 |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Max Instance Process Time Microseconds** | The number of microseconds per tick for processing instance spawning and despawning tasks. | 0 - 33000 | 500 |
| **Max Instance Task Batch Size** | The number of individual instance spawn and despawn tasks that can be batch processed together.| 1 - 2000 | 100 |
```

## InstanceSystemRequestBus

File: [Gems/Vegetation/Code/Include/Vegetation/Ebuses/InstanceSystemRequestBus.h](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Gems/Vegetation/Code/Include/Vegetation/Ebuses/InstanceSystemRequestBus.h)

| Request Name | Description | Parameters | Return | Scriptable |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `RegisterUniqueDescriptor` | Compares the input descriptor against entries in a set of existing, registered descriptors. If a matching descriptor is found then it increments the reference count and returns a pointer to that entry. Otherwise a new entry is added by copying the input descriptor and returning it. | `Vegetation::Descriptor&` | `Vegetation::DescriptorPtr` | No  |

> | `ReleaseUniqueDescriptor` | Reduces the reference count of a unique descriptor and remove it if there are no more references. | `Vegetation::DescriptorPtr` | None | No  |

Reviewer: "remove it" -> "removes it"

| `CreateInstance` | Queues the creation of a new render node by using the vegetation instance data. | `Vegetation::InstanceData&` | None | No  |
| `DestroyInstance` | Queues the destruction of a render node that matches the instance ID. | `Vegetation::InstanceId` | None | No  |
| `DestroyAllInstances` | Queues the destruction of all render nodes. | None | None | No  |

> | `Cleanup` | Destroys all render nodes, descriptor render groups, and any other resources. | None | None | No  |

Reviewer: "render node" and "render group" are Cry renderer terms. And since we're spawning prefabs, even "rendered instance" isn't exactly accurate. I think we can replace "render node" with "instance" and remove "descriptor render groups".

Author: ```suggestion
| `CreateInstance` | Queues the creation of a new instances by using the vegetation instance data. | `Vegetation::InstanceData&` | None | No  |
| `DestroyInstance` | Queues the destruction of an instance that matches the instance ID. | `Vegetation::InstanceId` | None | No  |
| `DestroyAllInstances` | Queues the destruction of all instances. | None | None | No  |
| `Cleanup` | Destroys all instances and any other resources. | None | None | No  |
```

## Technical details

> The Vegetation Instance System component is responsible for managing the creation and destruction of individual vegetation instance render nodes.

Reviewer: "instance render nodes" -> "instances"

Author: ```suggestion
The Vegetation Instance System component is responsible for managing the creation and destruction of individual vegetation instances.
```

It also binds the unique vegetation descriptor data to static object groups. 

> These groups allow vegetation render nodes that have similar configurations to share resources and be batched together.

Reviewer: These can be removed, they refer to the Cry renderer.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Requests to create or delete vegetation render nodes aren't handled immediately because render nodes and related objects must be managed on the main thread. 
Instead, the requests are queued into batches of tasks that run at every tick in the main thread. 

> Since creating and deleting many render nodes can be expensive and block the main thread, tasks run in batches at every time slice, across multiple frames.

Reviewer: "render nodes" -> "instances"

Author: Also incorporated suggestion below
```suggestion
Requests to create or delete vegetation instances aren't handled immediately because instances and related objects must be managed on the main thread. 
Instead, the requests are queued into batches of tasks that run at every tick in the main thread. 
Because creating and deleting many instances can be expensive and block the main thread, tasks run in batches at every time slice, across multiple frames.
```
